For presenting a single meal, I of course don't just want output the text, instead I think it makes sense
to create a new widget for a single list item here because it'll be a more complex structure, a more
complex widget composition of a couple of built-in widgets and therefore, I don't want to clutter this
sub-widget tree here in the CategoryMealsScreen but instead create a new item or a new widget just
as we did it for the category item where we also have a separate widget for displaying the categories
in our grid of categories.
So let's add a meal item here maybe and now, there is one thing which I want to improve about our folder
structure
before we continue. We have a couple of widgets which we use as screens,
we have these two widgets to be precise,
then we have widgets which we use as part of other widgets
and that's of course a core difference, a
totally different way of using widgets.
Both are normal widgets, a screen widget also is just a class that extends stateless or a stateful
widget
but the way we use these widgets of course is totally different.
So here, it would make sense to create more sub-folders to make it clear which widgets and which files
contain which kind of widget.
So here we could add widgets sub-folder for these normal widgets which we include into other widgets and
then a screens sub-folder for the screen-like widgets and then we can move categories screen and category
meals screen into the screens folder and category_item and meal_item.dart into the widgets folder and
dummy_data.dart and the main.dart file will stay where they are,
I think we can definitely keep those on the root level, though you could also create some data folder
for the dummy data if you wanted to.
Now we will need to fix a couple of imports, like here in main.dart, CategoryMealsScreen is now found
in the screen folders so we need to update our import to screens folder to point at that folder and
the same is of course true for the categories_screen.dart file and category_item.dart file, there
we also point that the category_meals_screen.dart file,
so there we first of all need to go up one level with two dots and then into the screens folder and
then into the category_meals_screen.dart file and in our screens.dart file here, the dummy data is found
one level above,
so we need two dots here and the category item is also found one level above
but then in the widgets folder and in the CategoryMealsScreen file, dummy data is found one level above.
With all that fixed, now we can work on the meal item and a meal item is simply another stateless widget
here in the end. I'll name it meal item
and as always, you need to import material.dart from the Flutter package.
Now how should a meal item look like?
And remember, this is simply the widget we use as part of our list of meals we're outputting once we
selected a category.
So how should such a list item look like?
Obviously, you can style and build this in whichever way you want.
Here's just one suggestion which also will use a couple of new features, new widgets, new ways of configuring
widgets which we haven't used before in the course because that's of course also the core goal or
one core goal of this course, I want to give you many examples of how you can build Flutter apps and
how you can work with the Flutter widgets.
I'll start by adding an InkWell and we did the same for the category item to have a clickable item where
we also have this ripple effect.
I want to have that effect here too, so an InkWell makes a lot of sense.
onTap, I want to make sure that we trigger some method which then actually shows us the detail page
for the selected recipe.
So here, I'll add a new method which doesn't return anything which I'll name select meal and for now,
I don't do anything in here, we'll add the logic later, I'll just connect it to onTap for the moment.
Now the InkWell will not just have a tap effect but should also have of course a child which is the
actual widget that's wrapped by the InkWell and there,
I'll use a card,
so this built-in card widget Flutter offers. Now in that card or on that card,
I want to override the default shape by setting the shape argument and with the shape argument, we can
change the way this card looks.
Instead of having a rectangle, we can get a rectangle with rounded corners where we can define how strong
the rounding effect should be and so on
and indeed, that's what I want here.
So for the shape, I'll set a rounded rectangle border object because shape, if you check it, needs a shape
border type and shape border actually is created by a rounded rectangle border,
this gives you a shape border type as well and rounded rectangle border takes one important argument,
the border radius you want to have for your corners.
So this is a typical pattern of how you can assign rounded corners to certain widgets, like the card widget
in this case and border radius in turn needs a border radius object but there, for border radius,
I'll use the circular constructor and then set a radius of 15 and this will now give us rounded corners
on this card with a radius of 15.
So that's the shape of the card, besides the shape, I'll set the elevation to 4 to have a little bit more
shadow behind the card and a margin with EdgeInsets.all of 10
so that we have more margin around every element, around every meal here.
With that we can add a child,
so the content inside of the card and there, I want to have a column because I want to have multiple widgets
above each other, on top of each other
so to say. Now
as you learned, column takes a children argument and there we provide a list of widgets that should be
part of that column.
The first widget I'll add is the stack widget, another built-in widget which allows us to add items
on top of each other in a three dimensional space, so you can have an image with a title on top of the
image,
so as part of the image
so to say and that's exactly the effect I want to have here
by the way.
I want to display the image of the recipe
and on top of that image, I also want to show the title. Stack takes a couple of children, which are the
child widgets that are placed on top of each other
and the first child widget will be my image.
Now I'll not create the image directly like this,
instead I also want to have rounded corners on the image
otherwise it will not look good in that rounded corners card
because if you would put an image with normal corners, without rounded corners into that card with rounded
corners, the image corners would basically overlap the card and you would not see the rounded corners
effect on the card and therefore, you need to clip the image, which means you have to move it into a certain
form,
you want to add rounded corners there as well.
Now you can't set rounded corners directly on an image,
that's simply not supported but you can use another widget to wrap it around your image widget, to basically
cut off or clip the corners off the image so that you have that feeling of having rounded corners because
the image is simply forced into that form,
you do this with ClipRRect.
Now this is a widget which is also a part of Flutter,
you don't use it that often and the name certainly looks a bit strange but this is a widget which you
can use to basically use any other widget as a child and force it into a certain form, for example into
a widget where the top corners are rounded. So ClipRRect
indeed does take a border radius, just like rounded rectangle border did for the card,
here we could use rounded rectangle border instead of ClipRRect because card supports this shape
argument and then handles the rounding internally,
here ClipRRect needs to be used as a helper widget because image does not support this internally.
Now the value for border radius here however is also border radius but then not circular but only,
only allows me to set the radius for each corners separately and I only want to round the corners on
the top left and top right
because these will be the corners that would overlap across our card corners.
Why not the bottom corners as well?
Because for our image, remember it's part of a column,
we'll have another element below the image, to be precise I want to output information about the affordability
and so on below the image.
So the bottom corners of the image will not match the bottom corners of the card,
the top borders will and therefore we have to round the top borders. So here, we can select the top left
corner and set that to radius
circular 15,
so of course the same value I used up here
and then do the same for top right, radius circular.
15.
So with that, we have that clipping setup,
now we have to define the child which should be clipped and that's the image
and there we can use the .network constructor to create an image widget which reaches out to the
network to fetch the image. Before the course, we used image.assets to use a local image that's included
in our app,
now that's simply not the case here,
every meal in our app has a URL that points at the image and therefore, we'll have to use that.
Now of course the URL of the recipe, of the meal is something we need as an input to our widget here.
So let's add a couple of properties in general,
I'd say, all the properties we need to properly display a meal in our list of meals. That will be the
title, that will also be the imageUrl of course but it will also be for example the duration which
is an integer and you can check the meal here,
the meal model to learn which property of our meals has which data type.
Now what I also want to display here in the list already is information about the complexity.
So the type here is complexity and for that, to use it in this file, you need to import it from the models
folder and there, the meal.dart file,
now we can accept or use complexity as a type here in the meal_item.dart file.
I also want to use affordability, that's exported by the same file
and with that, I'd say we have a solid set up.
Now let's add the constructor for meal item and there, you can use named or positional arguments, I'll
use named arguments here and I want to get the title, the imageUrl, the affordability, the complexity
of course and the duration.
Now just as before, we can also add @required in front of every argument here,
this is available because we are already importing flutter/material.dart which unlocks the required
decorator to make sure that meal items can't be created
without these arguments.
So now that we're getting this back down to the image network, we can of course simply use the imageUrl
which we're now getting as an argument when this widget is created. Now the image should also be configured,
I want to set a height for example, a fixed height of 250, so that the image never is
bigger than that and we have the same image height on every recipe
and for the width however, I want to set double infinity,
so it should take all the width
it can get. To fit the image nicely into that box which we create here,
I'll also add the fit argument because of course by default, you might have an image that has the aspect
ratio which would look distorted if you squeeze it into the dimensions you have here and to automatically
resize it or crop it such that it nicely fits into this box,
the fixed argument helps us and we can set this to BoxFit.cover and this will both resize and crop
the image so that it fits nicely into this container.
And now before we continue, let's have a look at this.
Let's save this and let's now go to CategoryMealsScreen and there, replace the text here with our meal
item widget which we worked on. For that, you need to add an import of course at the top,
so an import pointing at the widgets folder and there, at the meal_item.dart file
and with that, we can create our meal item down here and of course we now have to pass data to it,
data about the selected meal.
So the selected meal is of course category meals index
and now here, we expect a title for example,
so we should access category meals index title and pass this title. Besides the title, we also want the
imageUrl, so let's pass category meals for the selected
index.imageUrl. For the duration,
we have to pass category meals for the selected index duration. For the affordability,
unsurprisingly we use category meals for the selected index
affordability and for the complexity, we use category meals for the selected index here in our item builder
and then complexity.
With that, we're creating a meal item here which we're outputting.
Right now we're not using title, duration, affordability and complexity but we should be seeing images at least,
so let's save this and have a look.
If you go back to the application, you should now see some images there through which you can scroll
in all the categories. In some categories,
we only have one or two elements but in other categories, we have more elements and there, once they're
loaded,
you should see these images. And that's of course pretty nice already, looks quite delicious already in
my opinion,
the next step of course is to make sure that we also show the title, that we make these tappable and
that we maybe also show some extra information regarding complexity and so on.